<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">
<article>
  <title>Extension ODFvalidator</title>

  <para>The purpose of this extension is to provide a validator, which
  developers and users can use to ensure the consistency and correctness of
  OpenDocument files. Original code writen by Alex Hudson as part of the
  <ulink
  url="http://www.opendocumentfellowship.org/development/projects/odftools">ODF
  Tools</ulink> project.</para>

  <para>The validator will list out any problems it finds with the file.
  Errors are fatal: these are problems where the file does not conform to the
  OpenDocument specification. Warnings are less fatal, but could indicate
  problems.</para>

  <para>Some of the errors will be somewhat inscrutable. You will probably not
  be able to fix them unless you're a developer.</para>

  <para>Look into <ulink
  url="?|?section=ext&amp;file=ODFvalidator/_init.pm">source code
  documentation</ulink>.</para>

  <section>
    <title>Checks</title>

    <para>This is a list of the checks this tool performs:</para>

    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Mimetype</emphasis> and file extension
        exist and correspond</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Manifest.xml</emphasis> exists and is
        correct according to the RelaxNG schema</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Right files</emphasis> being present in a
        package (<filename>content.xml</filename>,
        <filename>styles.xml</filename>, <filename>settings.xml</filename>,
        ...)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><filename>Content.xml</filename>, <filename>meta.xml</filename>,
        <filename>settings.xml</filename> and <filename>styles.xml</filename>
        are correct according to the RelaxNG schema and is <emphasis
        role="bold">valid XML</emphasis></para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Checks if all <emphasis role="bold">images</emphasis> are
        included in zipped archive</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Checks that all included images are <emphasis
        role="bold">correct images</emphasis> (usable file type)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>That all defined <emphasis role="bold">XML namespaces</emphasis>
        that are used are correct according to the OpenDocument specification
        <action>[in development]</action></para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Check <emphasis role="bold">objects</emphasis> for the use of
        ODF’s accessibility features <action>[in development]</action></para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Verifying that every <emphasis role="bold">style</emphasis> that
        is used is actually defined somewhere <action>[in
        development]</action></para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Warning</title>

    <para>This is very much alpha software right now. It may warn or error on
    things which are valid OpenDocument; similarly, it may miss obvious
    problems with files. Let us know how you get on (leave your own comment on
    this page)</para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Help Out</title>

    <para>Please let us know of any extra tests you think we can perform, new
    checks, or about documents and/or applications you've found which trip up
    the validator, or trip up on the validator :)</para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>See Also</title>

    <para><ulink type=""
    url="?|?section=ext&amp;file=OpenDocument4CMS/">Extension
    OpenDocument4CMS</ulink></para>

    <para><ulink
    url="http://www.opendocumentfellowship.org/development/projects/odftools">ODFtools</ulink></para>

    <para><ulink url="http://www.opendocumentfellowship.org">OpenDocument
    Fellowship</ulink></para>

    <para><ulink url="http://odfvalidator.cyclone3.org/fellowship">Online
    ODFvalidator</ulink></para>
  </section>
</article>