<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">
<article>
  <title>Cyclone3 Framework documentation</title>

  <para><emphasis role="bold">Cyclone3</emphasis> is a framework primary
  oriented for development of <quote>Content Management Applications</quote>.
  That means - Cyclone3 is oriented to developers which will to build web
  portals ( XHTML, WML, ect... ), web services ( like SOAP or XML-RPC ) or
  intranet systems based on web technologies eg. XUL.</para>

  <para><emphasis role="bold">Cyclone3 Framework is running domain services
  (web portals) and is a backend for <ulink url="?|?section=xuladmin">Cyclone3
  XULadmin</ulink>.</emphasis></para>

  <section>
    <title>What is a Framework ?</title>

    <para>Framework is an software infrastructure that is composed of various
    standard compliant software libraries, programs and utilities which are
    used in many of our software development projects. This ensures that all
    project behave according to standards and share the same unified basic
    structure.</para>

    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Application framework</emphasis></para>

        <para>Set of standards and libraries which define common behavior and
        code for applications and enable seamless interaction between
        them.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Content management
        framework</emphasis></para>

        <para>CMF is an abstract Application Program Interface (API) which is
        used for content management purposes.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Multimedia framework</emphasis></para>

        <para>Comprehensive set of libraries, protocols and programs dedicated
        to sharing of multimedial content over computer networks. These
        include high quality and intuitive APIs for easy manipulation of many
        media formats.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><emphasis role="bold">Software framework</emphasis></para>

        <para>Software framework is a design concept and an API that is common
        for a type of software products. For example a third party "billing"
        system can be supplied by various software vendors but these systems
        often differ significantly. Software framework ensures that inside our
        applications they will behave identicaly.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>Frameworks are used in every software development process as the
    interfaces they provide are often well tested and reliable. Also, features
    such "user management" provided by the framework can be easily customized
    and used in many projects. This reduces development time and costs.</para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>About Cyclone3 Framework</title>

    <para>...</para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Administration</title>

    <para><ulink url="?|?section=frame&amp;file=system_requirements">System
    requirements</ulink></para>

    <para><ulink url="?|?section=frame&amp;file=installation">Framework
    installation</ulink></para>

    <para><ulink url="?|?section=frame&amp;file=new_domain_service">Creating
    and starting new domain service</ulink></para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>See Also</title>

    <para><ulink url="?|?section=xuladmin">Cyclone3 XULadmin</ulink> - XUL
    frontend for Cyclone3 Framework</para>
  </section>
</article>