<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.3//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.3/docbookx.dtd">
<article lang="sk">
  <title>Cyclone3 Framework installation</title>

  <section>
    <title>Procedure</title>

    <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Create directory for Cyclone3:
        <filename>/www/TOM</filename></para>

        <synopsis>su root
mkdir -p /www/TOM
chmod 777 /www/TOM</synopsis>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Fill it using the latest snapshot</para>

        <synopsis>svn co http://svn.cyclone3.org/trunk/frame /www/TOM</synopsis>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Setting up user and group</para>

        <itemizedlist>
          <para>The default user is 'cyclone3' and group 'cyclone3'</para>

          <listitem>
            <para>Creating user cyclone3</para>

            <synopsis>su root
groupadd cyclone3
useradd cyclone3 -g cyclone3 -G wheel,www,cron -d /www/TOM
passwd cyclone3
</synopsis>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Adding user apache to the group cyclone3</para>

            <synopsis>usermod apache -a -G cyclone3</synopsis>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>If you wish to debug web pages from commandline make sure
            apache user has shell enabled.</para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Add developers which will working with cyclone3 into group
            cyclone3</para>

            <synopsis>usermod freeman -a -G cyclone3
usermod oldman -a -G cyclone3</synopsis>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Publish directory <filename>/www/TOM/.bin</filename> to
        environment variable <varname>$PATH for maintanance
        utilities.</varname><synopsis>su root
echo "PATH=/www/TOM/.bin" &gt; /etc/env.d/30cyclone
echo "ROOTPATH=/www/TOM/.bin" &gt;&gt; /etc/env.d/30cyclone
env-update</synopsis></para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Configure Cyclone3 by editing
        <filename>/www/TOM/_config/TOM.conf</filename></para>

        <para>If the file does not exist, create it from default template
        using:</para>

        <synopsis>cp /www/TOM/_config/TOM.conf.tmpl /www/TOM/_config/TOM.conf</synopsis>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Make sure permissions are set right in the /www/TOM
        directory.</para>

        <synopsis>su root
tom3-chfiles -r
</synopsis>

        <para>If this Cyclone3 utility crashes than you are probably missing
        some perl library, install it and repeat. List of missing libraries
        will wary between systems.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>MySQL</para>

        <orderedlist spacing="compact">
          <para>MySQL must be version &gt;=4.1.</para>

          <para>When database is on localhost:</para>

          <listitem>
            <para>Check if database is running.</para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Create user <quote>TOM</quote> in MySQL/</para>

            <synopsis>mysql -h localhost -u root -p &lt; /www/TOM/_data/mysql.sql</synopsis>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Create database <quote>TOM</quote>.</para>

            <synopsis>mysql -h localhost -u TOM &lt; /www/TOM/_data/TOM.sql</synopsis>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Create database <quote>example_tld</quote> for example.tld
            domain service.</para>

            <synopsis>mysql -h localhost -u TOM &lt; /www/TOM/\!example.tld/_data/example_tld.sql</synopsis>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Upgrade cyclone3 database structures.</para>

            <synopsis>tom-chtables --db_name=TOM
tom-chtables --domain=example.tld
</synopsis>
          </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Try to execute Cyclone3 core from the commandline. (requires
        shell for apache)</para>

        <synopsis>su apache
cd /www/TOM/\!example.tld/\!www/
perl core.tom
</synopsis>

        <para>Again if this produces errors you are missing some perl
        libraries, install them and retry.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Check if cron services work without problems.</para>

        <synopsis>su cyclone3
cd /www/TOM/.core
./cron 1min
</synopsis>

        <para>Again if this produces errors you are missing some perl
        libraries, install them and retry.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Apache configuration</para>

        <orderedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>Install mod_auth_external</para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Add include cyclone3 configuration into apache
            <filename>httpd.conf</filename>.</para>

            <synopsis>echo "Include /www/TOM/.core/_config/httpd.conf" &gt;&gt; /etc/apache2/httpd.conf
echo "Include /www/TOM/.core/_config/httpd.virtual.conf" &gt;&gt; /etc/apache2/httpd.conf</synopsis>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para>Edit
            <filename>/www/TOM/.core/_config/httpd.virtual.conf</filename> to
            setup virtual hosts or just edit IP adress of default
            example.tld.</para>
          </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Configure cron system</para>

        <orderedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>As user cyclone3 edit crontab</para>

            <synopsis>su cyclone3
crontab -e
</synopsis>

            <para>Just paste following text in and save.</para>

            <synopsis>*    *    * * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 1min &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
*/5  *    * * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 5min &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
*/30 *    * * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 30min &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
2    *    * * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 1hour &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
5    */6  * * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 6hour &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
10    1    * * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 1day &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
20    2    */5 * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 5day &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
30    3    * * 1 cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 7day &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null
40    4    1 * * cd /www/TOM/.core/;nice -n 20 ./cron 1month &gt; /dev/null 2&gt; /dev/null</synopsis>

            <para>In directory <filename>/www/TOM/_logs/</filename> will be
            during 1-5 minutes showing new log files. When yes, cron system is
            working. When not, most often is the error in file
            permissions.</para>
          </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Sudo</para>

        <para>It is recomended to use Sudo for utilities
        <command>tom3-chfiles</command> and <command>tom3-restart</command>
        when more developers work on Cyclone3.</para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
  </section>
</article>