<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">
<article>
  <title>Where can I host my Cyclone3 project?</title>

  <subtitle>How should you host a small or large Cyclone3 domain
  service?</subtitle>

  <articleinfo>
    <date>$Date: 2008-02-25 23:15:23 +0100 (Po, 25 feb 2008) $</date>

    <editor>
      <surname>$Author: comsultia $</surname>
    </editor>

    <releaseinfo>$Rev: 3081 $</releaseinfo>
  </articleinfo>

  <para>Cyclone3 doesn't run on every generic $5/month webhosting accounts.
  One of the biggest perceived barriers to using Cyclone3 Framework is the
  fact that it doesn't run nicely in the most common kind of commodity
  webhosting space.</para>

  <para>Why not? Well, in a word, <emphasis
  role="bold">framework</emphasis>.</para>

  <para>Cyclone3 Framework is an application that runs on Linux/BSD server.
  This means that to use Cyclone3, you've got to be able to run standard
  applications on that server. Unfortunately, most low-end web hosting
  providers don't support Cyclone3, choosing instead to optimize their
  webservers for hosting lots and lots of small MySQL/PHP sites.</para>

  <para>This isn't that big a deal for large Cyclone3 projects, who typically
  run on one or more dedicated servers, and have IT staff on staff (or
  outsourced) with the appropriate skills. But it seems like a challenge for
  small Cyclone3 projects, doesn't it?</para>

  <section>
    <title>How to tell if your current web hosting provider supports
    Cyclone3</title>

    <para>Ask them! Say <quote>Hey, [friendly tech support person], does [your
    web hosting provider] support Cyclone3?</quote></para>

    <para>If your web hosting provider does not explicitly mention that they
    support Cyclone3, then they almost certainly don't.</para>

    <para>If your web server does not allow you to do any of the following
    things, then you probably can't run Cyclone3:</para>

    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Become a root user</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Install any software you want ( subversion, perl, fastcgi, ...
        )</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Use Perl</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Use FastCGI</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Use MySQL</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Use cron system</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Run long-running system processes that use 256 MB or more of
        RAM</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <section>
      <title>Why not use my current $5/month hosting provider?</title>

      <para>It's an old adage: <quote>you get what you pay for.</quote> More
      accurately, though, you don't get what you don't pay for.</para>

      <para>In the case of "el cheapo"1 web hosting providers, what you're not
      paying for is any kind of helpful support. That's labor, and labor is
      expensive. The entire business model of commodity hosting providers is
      to gamble that you won't have any tech support questions, and to provide
      the least amount of help possible if you do. This might be fine if all
      you're trying to do is host a few static web pages, or run a simple PHP
      script. But in the long run, ultra-low-cost commodity hosting providers
      are rarely a good value.</para>

      <para>Which we define as $5-20/month hosting providers selling shared
      LAMP instances.</para>
    </section>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>OK, then which web hosting providers do support Cyclone3?</title>

    <para>The situation sounds pretty bleak, right? Don't worry: finding good
    reliable hosting for Cyclone3 isn't so hard.</para>

    <para>There are several solid approaches to hosting a Cyclone3. In
    increasing order of difficulty they are:</para>

    <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Get Cyclone3 hosting from a Cyclone3 developers company that
        you're working with on your project.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Get Cyclone3 hosting from one of the many companies that
        specialize in Cyclone3 hosting.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Get a low-cost <quote>virtual server</quote> account from a web
        hosting provider and set up your own copy of Cyclone3.</para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
  </section>
</article>
