<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">
<article>
  <title>What is DocBook?</title>

  <section>
    <title>DocBook - ideal solution for content management</title>

    <para><emphasis role="bold">Do you want to store, share and convert your
    electronic documents more effectively? The answer is at hand: use the
    DocBook content and documentation standard.</emphasis></para>

    <para>DocBook is an XML standard for content and documentation interchange
    since 1991. At the beginning only its designers from HaL Computers and the
    publisher O'Reilly used this format to store content for their
    publications. In the 90s DocBook became popular and many big name
    companies such as Novell, Digital, Hewlett-Packard, SCO or Fujitsu adopted
    it. In the late 90s DocBook was already considered a well designed
    standard as it was adopted by the OASIS open standards
    organization.</para>

    <para>Currently DocBook is mainly used as a standard for storing
    documentation, articles, publications and for storing structured content
    in general. DocBook can even be used to create interactive
    presentations.</para>

    <para>Another advantage of using DocBook is its XML origin which makes it
    ideal for sharing electronic documents. Information in DocBook does not
    contain formatting and all content is divided into clear semantic
    blocks.</para>

    <para>The main and most useful advantage of using DocBook is that it can
    be easily converted to any other standard distribution formats such as
    HTML, RTF, DOC, OpenDocument and many more. From one source document many
    others can be generated with custom formatting. DocBook supports
    autogeneration of content lists, bibliography, links and many other useful
    features.</para>

    <para>DocBook dramatically reduces the time needed to write a document
    because the writer is concerned only with the content and not with
    formatting which is automatically handled by conversion tools.</para>

    <para>DocBook is a timeless data format which relies on the XML format
    which can be used with any XML tools. All information stored in this
    format is usable anytime.</para>

    <blockquote>
      <attribution>Roman Fordinál</attribution>

      <para>DocBook is a different view on document creation and storeage. At
      first we used docbook to store our technical documentation but today we
      use it for every document that leaves our company. For many companies it
      is important to keep a consistent CI formatting for every document. With
      DocBook your employees don't need to follow any formatting as it is
      handled by conversion tools.</para>
    </blockquote>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Questions</title>

    <para>If you have any questions about the <emphasis role="bold">DocBook
    standard</emphasis> or its integration in information systems feel free to
    contact us by <ulink url="?|?type=contact">contact page</ulink>.</para>
  </section>
</article>